# Chapter 3. The Tools of DeFi

What is DeFi right now?

Most of what we have in DeFi isn’t really decentralized or finance. It’s really quick, high-risk/high-yield money churn.

The returns are generated by new investment, not work done by the money invested.

## Wallets, Gas, Oracles

The nodes set fee ranges, but the circumstances determine the exact fee to apply at any given time. If a highly anticipated offering or launch is happening on that chain, gas may be 10–15 times higher than average.

Ethereum moved to proof-of-stake and transactions became way faster, but not way cheaper like other PoS chains. **Over time, this will likely make the Ethereum chain less competitive against other proof-of-stake chains.**

So, one way to initiate these contracts is through tokens paid out of your wallet. The other way is by using oracles.

Oracles

Smart contracts need to look outside themselves to find out information in order to act on it. So contracts (and chains) rely on oracles.

oracles can only trigger contracts only when something quantitative is involved.

### The Oracle Problem

https://chain.link/education-hub/oracle-problem

## Stablecoins Versus CBDCs

The current stablecoins have short-term use, but all are extremely likely to break in the long term.

A truly functional stablecoin can exist but doesn’t currently for multiple reasons. The primary one, in my opinion, is that most of the developers working on these coins don’t understand that creating a functional stablecoin is essentially creating a full base economy.

Governance tokens are the other key tool for DeFi. They are also asset-backed tokens, but with rights, rather than money, backing the token.

Understanding the value of any token is called its tokenomics, and most chains are appallingly poor at understanding how tokenomics work, much less designing them properly. As a result, we have lots of chains with tokens based on useless scarcity and false market value.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Financial_Action_Task_Force

Member countries theoretically work to make people safer by cutting off the cash flow to fund criminals such as terrorists, drug cartels, and human traffickers—crimes that disproportionately impact women, citizens of poor countries, and underserved communities.

The Travel Rule was initiated in 1996 and applied to banks and other financial institutions. it deals with money traveling between banks—the goal is to prevent money from hiding its origins. It required these institutions to share information with one another about customers when they conducted transactions over at least $3,000.

This requires banks collect a lot of information from the people involved in a transaction. I.e if I send a big chunk of money to someone in Banorte (not my bank) Banorte will need to collect and save a lot of info about me, my full name, my account number with my bank, etc.

2020 saw a surge in crypto interest by the mainstream.

And with this surge of money and interest came a slew of hacks and scams. The first over-the-counter crypto trading platform was globally blacklisted (Russia’s Suex). The Poly Network hack ($600 million), the Africrypt scam ($3.3 billion), the Colonial Pipeline ransom ($4.4 million)—altogether $14 billion in scams and theft occurred in one year. Scams increased 82%, and general crypto theft rose 516% in 2020 to $3.2 billion—and 72% of that was directly related to DeFi.
